NAME
     DialRmsd - switch RMSD dialog on and off

SYNOPSIS
     DialRmsd ( off | on ) [ expr ]

DESCRIPTION
     Switch RMSD dialog on and off. The RMSD dialog is a
     convenient interface to the commands Fit and CalcRmsd,
     especially for comparisons of different molecules.

     The optional second argument gives the number of
     groups of molecules for which residue ranges can be
     selected in the dialog. The default is the number of
     different molecules loaded.

     The top two parts of the dialog allow selection of the
     two properties for which the global RMSDs are
     calculated. The common choices 'bb' (backbone) and
     'heavy' (all heavy atoms) can be selected directly.
     A different property can be selected by chosing the
     'other' button, and entering the name of the property
     in the corresponding text field on the right hand
     side.  If 'other' is selected, and the text field is
     left empty, no global RMSDs will be calculated.

     The third part of the dialog is for entering residue
     ranges used for superposition. Different ranges can be
     used for different sets of molecules given by the
     range in the left side text field, this is useful for
     comparing different molecules. Both molecule ranges
     and residue ranges are given in the short selection
     syntax, e. g. 3-10,15,18-23. The number of lines for
     molecule ranges is chosen when opening the dialog, and
     can only be changed by closing the dialog and opening
     it again.

     The check boxes in the fourth part of the dialog
     select the properties that global displacements, local
     RMSDs, and local displacements are calculated for.

     The check boxes at the bottom of the dialog select
     some options. The first one has to be activated when a
     fit with segments in a different order than their
     residue numbering is desired, see the Fit help page
     for more details. The remaining options are used for
     RMSD calculation. They select whether each pair of
     molecules is fitted before calculating the RMSDs,
     whether local RMSDs and displacements should be
     reported relative to the mean structure or as average
     pairwise values, and whether RMSDs between groups of
     molecules (as defined by the molecule ranges in the
     third part of the dialog) should be calculated.

     The buttons at the bottom right activate the Fit or
     CalcRmsd command with the selected options.

     The OK button closes the dialog, the Help button shows
     this help page.

EXAMPLE
     DialRmsd on

SEE ALSO
     Fit, CalcRmsd

DATE
     980409
