NAME
     Rendering - set rendering options

SYNOPSIS
     Rendering ( 0 | 1 ) ( 0 | 1 ) ( 0 | 1 )
         ( 0 | 1 ) ( 0 | 1 ) ( 0 | 1 ) ( 0 | 1 ) ( 0 | 1 )

DESCRIPTION
     Set some rendering options. Depending on the output
     device, some options may always be enabled, no
     matter whether they are switched on or off by this
     command. Some of these options (like two-sided
     lighting) are also used to generate plots, so the
     appropriate options have to be set before giving the
     plotting command.

     The following options are supported:

         Anti Aliasing: Draw smooth lines. This may not
             be supported on all hardware.

         Transparency: Use transparent drawing for objects
             that are not completely opaque. This may not
             be supported on all hardware.

         Fast Spheres Drawing: Instead of approximating
             spheres with many polygons, they are drawn
             as circles. This makes shading impossible,
             but can make the display much faster.

         Backface Elimination: Eliminate polygons that
             face away from the viewpoint at an early
             display step. This has normally no visual
             effect on the display, but can make it
             faster.

         Shading: Color polygons depending on the angle
             from the light source and the view point.
             This is also necessary for the support of
             depth cueing on most devices, e. g. for
             plotting.

         Two-sided Lighting: Normally lighting calculations
             are only done for the "outside" of an object.
             This triggers lighting calculation to be done
             for both sides. The effect is visible if
             objects are cut, mostly by the front clipping
             plane.  It is not switched on by default on
             most devices because it can make all rendering
             slower.

         Depth Sorting: Sort all display elements by depth
             before drawing. This gives a quick, but
             sometimes unexact, method for hidden surface
             elimination.

         Hidden Surface Elimination: Eliminate display
             elements that are hidden by other elements
             closer to the viewpoint. If the hardware
             supports this feature, it is enabled by
             default. If it has to be emulated by the
             program, the display can get very slow.

EXAMPLE
     Rendering 0 0 0 1 1 0 1 0

SEE ALSO
     PlotPar, PlotPs, PlotFm*, Fog

DATE
     960305
